Israel is pushing ahead with its
indiscriminate bombardment of Southern
Gaza at least four Palestinians have
been killed in attacks on Kan yunes the
attacks come just hours after the
international court of justice ordered
Israel to take measures to stop
genocidal actions in the strip more than
170 Palestinians were killed in the 24
hours after the ruling was handed down
Israel has killed more than
26,200 Palestinians since October the
7th meanwhile Israeli soldiers have set
up checkpoints in canun screening and
detaining Palestinians who are trying to
flee the destruction and fighting those
who've been released tell of days of
humiliation as is Abu Omar
reports people are moving across this
checkpoint that was set up near al- AXA
University towards the Western areas
Israeli forces set up this checkpoint 2
days ago and they've been arresting
numerous people as they pass through
this
checkpoint they took my boys earlier and
they've just released them moments ago
they took them last night they've just
released them my boys didn't do anything
wrong I'm freezing to death they stopped
and detained Us near the tank they fired
rounds near our feet they detained and
Sear
us they humiliated us and fired at us
there was no water and they detained us
overnight then they told us to return to
the schools today in the morning they
fired at us
again when they left yesterday we
thought we would not see them again but
thank God we found them
here it rained on us and it was very
tough we had to throw away all our
belongings we couldn't even eat whenever
we tried to open up bags they would open
fire in
US occupation forces have been opening
fire in the direction of the displaced
people people reported large numbers of
injured at kanun camp and at al- Amal
neighborhood and there are a number of
people killed and their dead bodies on
the ground meanwhile many displaced
people have taken refuge in the schools
near NASA Hospital people continue to
move towards the Far Western part of can
Yunis and they have no clue where they
could be heading next under the ongoing
escalation of Israel's
offensive we can go now to hanni Mahmud
he joins us from Rafa in southern Gaza
hany firstly tell me about what has
happening at these checkpoints in canun
that Israeli forces have set
up yes well more confirmed reports
emerging from Khan UNF the one yet again
one uh uh the scenario that we' seen in
the northern part and Gaza City is
repeating itself in the city of hanun
now where uh hundreds of thousand of
Palestinians were trapped inside their
residential homes and the evacuation
centers and as the Israeli military uh
kept uh militarily surrounding those
areas it started to uh allow people to
uh go through go out of the city of
kanun but not at a free cost they just
what it's doing right now to set up
these checkpoints and these are exactly
how they are described they are they are
a a surveillance cameras as well as very
narrow tunnel shape corridors uh for
people to walk through in one by one and
the purpose of it is to is to SI through
the population as the Israeli military
stated and uh what it looks like on the
ground is more of a setting up a
campaign of arrest and humiliation
because it takes hours for people to
Quee in line of that security check that
has been set up uh people are asked to
uh to do uh acts that are not in
accordance with uh with the uh the
practices that are known for people it
just putting more pressure they're asked
the questions about what's going on in
the city of kanun they are faced with a
list of names and pictures of certain
people that the Israeli military is
after it just using using people
particularly women and children as a
pressure on on the men particularly
parents if they have any lead
information into uh some of the uh the
figures they are looking after so far
the the situations are very very
difficult and people who have been
through these checkpoints are describing
a horror humiliation as well as the the
the repetition of that you Palestinians
have brought this onto yourself and and
we are just making your wish Real by
conducting these uh security uh
clearance and these setting up these
checkpoints and hany what is the
situation where you are in Rafa we're
hearing reports the area is becoming
increasingly
overcrowded yes well it's not only a the
the bombing campaign continues but the
area is becoming increasingly over
crowded ra within the past weeks already
ran out of space and ran out of the uh
basic supplies and essential survival
item to commodate and really displace it
traumatized large population uh it's it
is continuing to get worse by the day
particularly at this time of the year
it's very cold there is rain and
possible flood can can can occur in
evacuation zones like Al Maas has been
very difficult for people within the
past two days as the the temperature
drop down people have no suitable
clothing have no blankets or anything to
warm themselves on top of that the lack
of of in in of food supplies and medical
supply just make the experience much
more awful for them and and this is
contrary to what people have experienced
in the past they like when they like the
rain but not at this particular
difficult time where they lack
everything essential to help them
survive the the brutal condition right
now thank you for that hany Mahmud
reporting there from Rafa in southern
Gaza